---
title: 'Seizing the Moment and Using Others for Help'
date: '2019-04-02'
category: 'Self-Improvement'
---

# Seizing the Moment and Using Others for Help 

Through out our limited time on Earth, we tend to focus on the grand scale and the future instead of the limitless potential the present gives us. We think, “What will happen to me?” “Will I make it?” “I’ll be poor forever.” If the future is an accumulation of what we do in the present, then why isn’t all of our focus on the now? Why aren’t we constantly striving for greatest in every moment that is given to us. A lot of it could be existential angst. It could be boredom, lack of motivation, internal mental issues, misinformation. There are many excuses you can attach to it but when will you start challenging yourself? 

I have plenty of challenges, some small, some big. They include but aren’t limited to reading daily, going to the gym daily, working vigorously, even brushing my teeth daily. While a lot of my challenges have become habits, it takes time to have them become habits and it’s getting them to that point that is difficult. I do think it’s important to give yourself these challenges though.

A lot of progress can be made in terms of these challenges with yourself if you’re disciplined. If you work hard and you give yourself attainable goals, anything is possible. On the flip side, what if you’re not disciplined? What if you even find it hard to get up in the morning? There are plenty of what ifs, but their is a way around these what ifs. If you struggle to find internal motivators, find external ones. Humans are social creatures and a lot of our energy is given to us from external sources. Instead of making it a one man mission, why not make something a paired or grouped effort? Gain help from others to attach meaning to something. Events and challenges are much better followed through if you attach someone else to it. Someone else to push you and give meaning to the challenge you are attempting. Someone else to hold you accountable and track your progress together.

Over the past few weeks I have thought about this. How if I had someone there to challenge me in the darkest moments, I might rise to the occasion. Think about someone searching for something in a sunken ship. If they are swimming aimlessly under water, they’re going to drown eventually or maybe they get lucky. There are too many rooms to navigate and only so much air you can hold. But if you have someone above water, guiding you with a map and a plan, your chances for success increase ten-fold. I was given this map to motivation again with a Plank competition of all things. Sure enough, it came from someone else’s challenge to me. 

I was challenged by a co-worker and friend, Faith Fonfara. A real bad ass who I believe parallels me in competitiveness and motivation to improve one’s self. For everyone else, it was a fun event and something to look forward to. For me, and I believe her as well, it was a test of will to see how far we’d go. I was determined to let my inner psycho out. It started because I had talked about the various fitness challenges I have done, how hard they were and how I’ve found I can push past a lot of my limits. Since she quite a bit shorter than I am, we decided a body weight competition would be most fair. So, we settled on planking. Even though I had run hundreds of miles and done thousands of push-ups, I hadn’t done a plank in months, maybe years. I was petrified. I didn’t want to lose. I run from failure and it’s what keeps me in forward momentum. 

To paint a much better picture, I am 6 ft 4 inches and about 190 lbs. Really fit if you ask me. She is just as fit if not more in shape than I am and is about 9 to 10 inches shorter than I am. Additionally, looking at the anatomy of women vs men, women can hold their body weight longer than men due to increased pain tolerance and less bone density. Not only this, but everyone who has worked with her longer told me I was screwed. One co-worker told me, “I’ve seen her hold a 5 minute plank man, I’m sorry. You look fit, but she is a bad ass.” If this didn’t scare me, training for the competition did. However, it also fueled me. This guy had never seen me do any sort of activity and still didn’t want to give me an ounce of credit. That lit a fire under me and quelled the doubt in the back of my mind.

We were given two weeks to train and the hype in the office became real. People were putting down money like it was a pre boxing fight in Vegas. The office was split on who the winner would be. I didn’t want to let anyone or myself down. So I went to the gym and did my first plank in months. I went for as long as I could, turning my phone face down and not allowing myself to keep time, just focusing on the music and my breath. After what felt like a lifetime, I fell, turned the phone over and…. 2 minutes and 26 seconds. Well, that was it. I was screwed, I was already told she could do 5 minutes and with a crowd adding adrenaline, there’s no way I could beat her. I was an insignificant climber facing Everest and all its elements. However, one though occurred to me, what kind of man would I be if I just gave up here? All the workouts I’ve done, the fitness I preach, wouldn’t it be undone if didn’t even attempt. I had a challenge in front of me, so how would I prevail? 

My first thought was, what would Goggins do? He would break up the impossible into manageable chunks, making it possible. So that’s what I did. I promised myself for the next two weeks I would add 30 seconds to the end of that 2 and a half minutes every day. With that math, I should be at 8 minutes by the end of the two weeks. Hopefully she wouldn’t get past 8 minutes. So as the days came and went, I rued the time I would have to add 30 more seconds to yesterday’s plank. Eventually I was up to 5 minutes, then 6! The seed of doubt slowly disintegrating as I truly gave it my all. I couldn’t believe what I had done in the past week. However, this is where I plateaued. Over the next week, I was crushed by immense shoulder and lower back pain, . Giving in to my weakness and allowing a seed of doubt to come back into my mind. I attempted every day except the one right before hand, never getting above 6 minutes again.

So the day came. I tucked away the kernel of doubt that began planting itself in my mind. Mortified as I walked into work. Thinking about the ridicule that would came if I fell. I tried switching my mindset. What if I just give it my all? No one could doubt me then. So I made myself a promise. I would not relent until my body physically gave in. Suddenly, with that thought alone… I wasn’t afraid then. I was just nervous for the physical pain I was about to put myself through.

At this point, there’s 30 people huddled around our small cubicle, all anxiously waiting a plank off of epic proportions. If I was on the outside watching, I would have thought we were about to have a UFC 1 type match. (For those that don’t know, the first UFC showcased a man fighting a sumo wrestler literally twice his size. David vs Goliath. David won that fight actually.) We had a stare off, Faith just as determined to knock me off the pedestal. Then in went the headphones. I was locked in. I listened to NF - Therapy Session and Grindin’. Two dark rap songs that help me bring out a side of me that I go to when I work out. The timer starts and all my nerves go away, all that’s left is me, the pain, my music and breath. 

2 minutes in - No sweat, I’ve been two minutes easy now

3 minutes in - I’m shaking already… not good, it’s too soon to start shaking. 

5 minutes in - I’m shaking badly, my legs feel like they are convulsing and I put all my thoughts into the music. I look over and she looks rock solid, not breaking a sweat. 

6 minutes in - The shaking subsides but my shoulders are on fire. 

7 minutes in - I hear nothing and all I’m left with is shooting pain in my arms. I try mouthing the words to the song to get my mind off it. 

8 minutes in - My arms go completely numb and I realize I can keep this up for a long time. 

9 minutes in - I see her knee slightly buckle and I’m on the verge of winning. All I tell myself is just keep holding, I’ve gone this far. I stare at her knee intently like I’m going to mentally get it to buckle.

9 minutes and 40 seconds in - She drops. My first thought was thank god. My second thought was exuberance and glee. My third was a realization that my two songs had ended without me realizing it. I truly was in a weird flow state. I wasn’t prepared for the length we went. In the moment I asked for time, I was really hoping we broke 10 minutes. 

Without Faith pushing me, I would have never seen how far I could go. The challenges we face help us grow in ways we can’t imagine. And when there is someone to challenge you, rise to that challenge, climb that Everest. I promise you the view at the end of that hike will be worth it, because you earned it. You’d be amazed at how high you can actually go. 

Even if you don’t have anyone to challenge, you should still challenge yourself and more importantly, hold yourself accountable. That is where true progress comes from. Muhammed Ali said, “…I only start counting when it starts hurting. When I feel pain, that’s when I start counting, because that’s when it really counts.” Ultimately, the question here is, what will you do in the moment? Rise to the occasion? Push past your pre conceived limits based on comforts? Or regret never giving your all?